Skip to content
Search or jump to…
Pull requests
Issues
Marketplace
Explore
 
@MarkoBridgewater 
IUS-CS
/
Capstone-Project-Arti-GaN
Public
Code
Issues
Pull requests
1
Actions
Projects
1
Wiki
Security
Insights
Settings
Capstone-Project-Arti-GaN/README.md
@IAMNameless9t9
IAMNameless9t9 Update README.md
Latest commit 9fb5840 12 minutes ago
 History
 2 contributors
@IAMNameless9t9@MarkoBridgewater
23 lines (13 sloc)  2.47 KB
   
# Arti-GaN

Nathanael L. Mann (IAMNameless9t9), Mark Bridgewater (MarkoBridgewater), Joshua Carrier (jcarrier0026)

---

Arti-GaN is an Artificial Intelligence-based Image Generator. Using Generative Adversarial Networks and small datasets of images, we are able to create an AI capable of generating similar, but unique images, and through human interaction train those same AI’s to generate more aesthetically pleasing images.

For our product, we intend to use a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) that can synthesize new aesthetic images (though research may lead us down a different path by which to accomplish what we want). We will train the GAN to achieve this by taking in a dataset of images and outputting a new, but unique image. To gather feedback for the GAN, we intend to create a web-based front end to crowdsource options on the GAN’s performance. Users will be able to go to the website, and will be presented with a sample image generated by one of several copies of the base GAN that we trained, and tell the server whether or not they find the image aesthetically pleasing, and then the algorithm will generate a  new image for them to judge; the goal being that the GAN will increase the number of positive reviews it receives.

---

## Install/Useage

Our project was more of a research project, so some of the software will not be made available for people to install. There were some security concerns when it came to abusing the GaN to generate harmful images. This guided our decision to not allow direct access to the GaN, only to the website to see the progress the GaN was making.

---

## Future Plans

If we had more time, we would continue to make changes to the GaN to get better results. We would also start utilizing alternative datasets. As we moved further along in the project, we realized processing images bigger than 64x64 pixels was not very feasible using our current hardware. In the future, we would want to get access to better machines that could handle larger images/input sizes and do so at a faster rate. 
	Also adding more interactivity with the website to help train the model of the GaN such as allowing users to see an image outputted by the GaN and give feedback of whether or not they thought the image was aesthetically pleasing or not.
Extra time would also allow us to experiment with different external systems, such as Ru-dalle in hopes of getting better results/more complex systems for interaction and image generation, like Ru-dalle’s text-seed feature.
© 2022 GitHub, Inc.
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact GitHub
Pricing
API
Training
Blog
About
